Appendix on converting data types to strings (3.0.4) (#3840)
OAI/OpenAPI-Specification: versions/3.0.4.md

1.2       | 2014-03-14 | Initial release of the formal document.
1.1       | 2012-08-22 | Release of Swagger 1.1
1.0       | 2011-08-10 | First release of the Swagger Specification

## <a name="dataTypeConversion"></a>Appendix B: Data Type Conversion

Serializing typed data to plain text, which can occur in `text/plain` message bodies or `multipart` parts, as well as in the `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` format in either URL query strings or message bodies, involves significant implementation- or application-defined behavior.

Schema Objects validate data based on the [JSON Schema data model](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-bhutton-json-schema-00#section-4.2.1), which only recognizes four primitive data types: strings (which are UTF-8 except in [extremely limited circumstances](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8259#section-8.1)), numbers, booleans, and `null`.
Notably, integers are not a distinct type from other numbers, with `type: integer` being a convenience defined mathematically, rather than based on the presence or absence of a decimal point in any string representation.

> The Parameter and Encoding Objects offer features to control how to arrange values from array or object types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Parameter Object](#parameterObject) and [Encoding Object](#encodingObject) offer features to control how to arrange values from array or object types.
```

They can also be used to control how strings are further encoded to avoid reserved or illegal characters.
However, there is no general-purpose specification for converting schema-validated non-UTF-8 primitive data types (or entire arrays or objects) to strings.

Two cases do offer standards-based guidance:

* [RFC3987 §3.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3987#section-3.1) provides guidance for converting non-Unicode strings to UTF-8, particularly in the context of URIs (and by extension, the form media types which use the same encoding rules)
* [RFC6570 §2.3](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6570#section-2.3) specifies which values, including but not limited to `null`, are considered _undefined_ and therefore treated specially in the expansion process when serializing based on that specification

> To control the serialization of numbers, booleans, and `null` (or other values RFC6570 deems to be undefined) more precisely, schemas can be defined as `type: string` and constrained using `pattern`, `enum`, `format`, and other keywords to communicated how applications must pre-convert their data prior to schema validation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To control the serialization of numbers, booleans, and `null` (or other values RFC6570 deems to be undefined) more precisely, schemas can be defined as `type: string` and constrained using `pattern`, `enum`, `format`, and other keywords to communicate how applications must pre-convert their data prior to schema validation.
```
